---
lastmod: 2026-04-20
---
Mice in a labyrinth show rapid learning, sudden insight, and efficient exploration
- it's hard to believe other people haven't done this..? how come this is a 'new' result?
	- these kinds of studies also always make me wonder if there is smth specific to the mice they chose to use..
- it's an interesting approach to intentionally not record any neurons during these trials; perhaps they wanted to come up with their spatial navigation endotaxis algo before seeing any neural circuits
- i kinda wanna take on their challenge of seeing if i can come up with a model that better predicts the mouse maze algo

Endotaxis
- cool paper!
- how does the traveling wave hippocampus thing fit into this? i guess it allows the animal in the endotaxis algo to do the vicarious trial and error by representing the future point as well?

hrmmm levy flights are observed foraging behavior in open fields

there's a question as to how endotaxis works in open fields because its graph representation appears to be quite discretized

wonder if there's some way to reconcile these two

how could this work?
- one way would be that the place fields are just increased systematically if the bounds of the space the animal was in increase? seems odd tho. feels like it can't be some digital algo type thing where when you step out of bounds you loop thru everything before & broaden its size
	- it's interesting how my brain is so CS algo pilled which is a very digital way of thinking. how do i shift to analog?
- 

also iirc from the chenchen stuff there's a prediction about delays in reward feedback leading to different length levy flights? forget the details but i think it was something observed in experiment. wonder if endotaxis can produce that behavior?