---
lastmod: 2026-04-21
---
lol i wonder if just cataloguing interesting animal behaviors (like this [mouse basketball](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8nuI2RrJTfA) thing) in detail with how long it took them to learn, how it was learned, etc could be worthwhile? there's random youtubers doing individual animal behavior things like this for fun already
	this sounds like a fun project & could perhaps result in a useful dataset

research program that kinda blends my current theses/interests:
	How can we build a unified picture of individual neurons (eg dendritic computation) & population level dynamics, specifically for closed loop sensorimotor control to achieve movement?

whoa spaced repetition [works](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC3187929/) in C elegans? what does that tell us about how associative learning rules *must* work? or at least which ones can be ruled out? tho at the same time it seems like longer term memories are stored with mRNA/proteins rather than just in synapses. so maybe irrelevant.

externalized cognition is the name of the game. let the environment do the work for you

how might endotaxis work in open fields? i mean the core principles of this algorithm are that you can:
- tag specific locations as important
- activation of map cells at that specific locations -> computation of gradient

a key limitation is that the algo working requires learning a static adjacency matrix of a finite graph

hmm in an open field environment tho don't animals typically tend to pick a spot to burrow/make a nest/make a home base? and then presumably have a much denser understanding of that area, ie they could still work with finite graph style algos in that specific space

so if you recast open field as primarily the exploration part, could it still work

