---
lastmod: 2026-04-15
---
"Hippocampal theta oscillations are traveling waves":
- Super interesting paper
- Shows how the hippocampus represents line segments, not just points
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5CxSoFK5tOQ
- Overall idea of how the hippocampus encodes events spatiotemporally, synched by the theta rhythm, and the theory that these are the chunks that are later stitched together to form a memory is dope. And then this is repurposed for more abstract/semantic ideas, like language math reasoning etc. Insane. Techniques originally created to help us navigate the world are repurposed for "higher-level" cognition – lends a lot of credence to all this bodywork stuff, how scientific discoveries often include someone physically internalizing what they're working on, etc.
- LOOPER/ADM and that family of methods learn transition states for the global neuron population by doing nonlinear dimensionality reduction. are the structures they pick up on better described as waves?
	- in c elegans case if there is no traveling wave then this wouldn't exist
- is there a microcircuit that is "hippocampus-like" in c elegans? it may not use traveling waves in the same way but the same kind of oscillations could play an interesting analogous role for encoding associative and non-associative memories
	- supposedly not. short term memories coded in sensory neurons, long term in interneurons. local learning rules all the way down, no global clock style traveling wave.
- do birds have hippocampi? they need to navigate 3d space...
	- yes seems like it, and evidence of place cells etc. and the birds that do food storage can enlarge their hippocampus by ~30% in the winter when they have to remember thousands of hidden location!
- chatgpt q: "When should travelling-wave structure be interpreted as part of the computation, rather than just a geometric description of coordinated activity?"
	- weird question, they aren't separable