---
lastmod: 2026-04-15
---
read **Cho & Sternberg (2014), “Multilevel Modulation of a Sensory Motor Circuit during C. elegans Sleep and Arousal.”** and **Banerjee et al. (2023), “Differential processing of a chemosensory cue across life stages sharing the same valence state in C. elegans.”**

first one – multiple levels of modulation in sleep vs awake. all sensory neurons are modulated down during sleep. interneuron synchronization is part of what "wakes up" the animal

second – the same valence state (CO2) in different developmental stages (starved vs dauer) can have different functional microcircuits underlying the response. the same interneuron has different roles in responding to the same valence state across different developmental stages

---

**Wierzynski et al. (2009), “State-dependent spike-timing relationships between hippocampal and prefrontal circuits during sleep.”**

interesting. hippocampus leads prefrontal cortex during SWS sleep with consistent ~100ms timing. they are not consistently correlated during REM sleep. former may hippocampus passing memories to PFC, latter may be more intrinsic memory consolidation.

---

hm this differential processing paper and other similar results imply that the "micro degen macro conserved" thing probably applies even within a single animal

in other words, a single behavior can be implemented with different manifolds / dynamical objects *within the same animal*

i guess that can be reconciled with development – early on in development many many dynamical system implementations are available to the animal's brain. repeated usage of one to implement eg forward locmotion cements that pathway (essentially creating an attractor) so that it is favored moving forward for that particular animal. basic LTP/LTD could accomplish this. it's kind of like sculpting clay, though there are certain initializations/probabilities built into the clay so that this neuron tends to connect to this other neuron etc.


do other animals with hippocampi (mammals/birds) recall their childhoods? how could we even tell.. it's v interesting tho that theta waves are lower freq in children and higher in adults and kids don't form long term memories until way later