---
lastmod: 2026-04-24
---
can the brain simulate any algorithm? probably... not? I guess this is asking if it is turing complete. how does it choose which algo to switch between? is eg endotaxis 'built in'/hardwired? or is it more like – a particular way of representing/viewing 3D space is built in & endotaxis is just a highly likely choice? can you even distinguish? I suppose in dynamical systems language you can't reallly distinguish because the algorithm is 'implemented' as highly likely state evolution of the system itself? analogous to those mechanical adders or those gear-based integrators... but at the same time it's very reconfigurable.

so if you accept the dynamical systems picture, you have:
- a highly reconfigurable analog computational system
- states/configurations that are way more likely = the 'intrinsic manifold' where learning is fast
- states/configurations that are way less likely = outside manifold where learning is way slower (equivalent to having to learn some internal representation / sparse code as meister puts it)

wonder what happens if you look at endotaxis from a dynamical systems lens? i mean it's nominally about movement so maybe it has some interesting properties there? or at least a motor cortex RNN style thing that represents the endotaxis circuit does?

so what would a continuous/open field generalization of endotaxis look like?

the 'externalized cognition' lens would imply endotaxis is kind of coming about *because of* the environment that's been chosen. like it's their forcing of a binary tree maze structure that's resulting in an endotaxis-like algo? but the mouse doesn't know that global state – it just sees local turning choices & probably salient features at each? what are the key 'concepts' in this task, and could that help generalize it to continuous/open field?

the key concepts are things like:
- a turn/fork in the path
- resources/goals
- a 'point cell' = node in the graph. this isn't really a key concept tho? a segment?

hrm this clone structured causal graph seems like it captures a lot of different aspects about the hippocampus quite well. makes it seem like endotaxis might be a specific instantiation of that more general approach.

---


I want to observe & understand animal behavior. ideas for how to do this:
- catalog YT animal teaching ppl
- run stuff @ home (eg mouse maze experiments)
- volunteer @ zoo


---

Does Chenchen autonomous robot thing exclude single celled organisms?
- seems like the answer is no! this was her list
	- when placed in an open-field environment, will learn to use a motor system, eg oscillatory muscles, to move around in it
	- will use this motion to seek out increasing gradients in the environment
	- will maintain explore/exploit balance
	- will have memory of “good” or aversive locations in this field
	- can learn to associate sensory cues with these locations
	- a high degree of flexibility with these features, eg when the motor system is perturbed/augmented/damaged, it will learn to use the new system
	- do all of the above without explicit global optimization on an objective.
- appears that bacteria can do all of the above! crazy lol

Why is it so hard to study brains of freely moving animals?

Is there actually a meaningful distinction between neuroscience and eg molecular biology?

---

https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/4basF9w9jaPZpoC8R/intro-to-brain-like-agi-safety-1-what-s-the-problem-and-why
- I feel fairly convinced that the main step in getting brain-like AGI isn't the hardware, it's figuring out the algorithm
	- I guess it's unclear how to even separate those two that well.. so rather what I mean is that because the brain runs on such an absurdly low amount of power/speed, I'm fairly convinced that the bottleneck to figuring out human-like intelligence is algorithmic
	- it may *require* specialized hardware to make it go as fast & energy-efficiently as the human brain but the main bottleneck is algorithmic
- this doesn't seem like it would prevent AGIs or other programmers from simply modifying the reward function to make it malicious or whatever. but i guess that's out of scope here
- I do think this is a pretty interesting neuroscience problem!

what's his step by step argument?
- 