---
lastmod: 2026-04-15
---
Computation Through Population Dynamics

Why is it that RNN/dynamical systems based approaches have been so much more successful in motor cortex / locomotion?
- I suppose locomotion etc naturally give rise to rhythmic & oscillatory neural states which dynamical systems are very well suited for

Another aspect of why the dynamical systems view feels conceptually promising to me is specifically *because* it works well in movement. I am very sold on this idea that sensing moving and reacting to the environment was the difficult thing for evolution, and other "higher order" capabilities were later bolted onto a system primarily designed for movement. So in some sense understanding movement-based learning is more "fundamental".
	And obviously memory & learning are intertwined. So to me the pathway of movement/spatial navigation -> memory -> learning feels extremely fundamental. It dovetails nicely with my interest in Montessori where a core axiom is kids are sensorial/movement-based learners & also in the tennis trainer, which is literally about faster feedback loops during movement for improved learning.

One concern though is that the dynamical systems approach bins firing rates over some short time window, thereby losing any spike timing dependence. Temporal coding clearly matters, eg in hippocampal phase precession.

---

Meister papers

Learning, Fast And Slow
- Pretty interesting take that things like 2AFC are so unnatural that we may be studying slow learning tasks that aren't representative of real animal learning (either for the animal in question or for humans), especially for animals (eg mice) whose lifespan is relatively shorter
- Takeaway is that maybe we should focus on real learning tasks, both fast and slow, like mice learning a maze. I guess that's what his lab does.
- What species have long life spans, and do they do more slow learning? Is there a correlation between (our notion of) intelligence and lifespan?
	- Octopus: 1-5 yrs (die soon after reproduction)
	- Dolphins: 40-60 yrs
	- Elephants: 50-70 yrs
	- Crows: 7-8 yrs wild, 16-20 ideal conditions
	- Interesting that the octopus is so short yet so smart!
	- https://www.rathbiotaclan.com/the-animal-that-evolved-intelligence-twice-without-borrowing-a-single-gene-from-us/
		- This is sick. I wonder what octopus nervous systems mechanisms can teach us about the human brain.

Will continue to read his lab's papers but so far I like the vibe a lot